---
title: "Exploring code in space and time"
date: "07/08/20"

---

I have a confession to make. It's actually pretty embarassing. Until
recently, I'd never really learned to use a debugger. I'd played with
them, sure, but never used them as a first line of defense. And as with
most hard things, I wish I'd learned to wield them sooner.

I blame this on the fact that my most formative programming years were
spent in pure functional languages. When I'm dealing with a functional
language, I think of my program in terms of call trees. Pure, stateless
call trees that operate atomically on shared concurrent data types.
  Because state doesn't change in these functions, there's no notion of
time. And as a result, it's *meaningless* to use a debugger on them. But
you really don't need to; the beauty of a pure function is that you can
fully understand how it runs *every time* just by reading it. It doesn't
depend on the outside world.

And because the data shared between these pure call trees is explicitly
defined, it's easy to log every change. Logging gives you the same picture
as debugging.

Now I write in blend of imperative and functional and logging has blind
spots. I just can't know every state change that I might want to log in a
large program. Debugging allows me to inspect the nooks and crannies in my
running program I don't want to instrument with logging ad hoc.

If text editors allow me to explore a program in space, logging and
  debuggers allow me to explore them in space-time. I get to pull out a
slice of the running program and look at it, poke it, understand it. And
they're wonderfully complementary. Logging allows me to choose a specific
set of slices to be the canonical slices and generate them for study.
    Debugging allows me to think up slices on the fly that I don't necessarily
  want to become canonical and study those on the fly.

My recent re-introduction to debuggers has me appreciating a running
program as a structure to understand on its own. I'd gotten used to mostly
exploring code in space; here's to exploring them in space and time.