---
title: "Here we go again"
date: "06/14/20"
category: "life"
---

This isn't the first time I've tried to build a public writing habit. I've
wanted a canonical set of ideas that represent me on the internet for at
least a decade. And I've 'started a blog' or 'started writing on medium'
or 'started tweeting' once every couple of years over that period.

I intend for it to stick this time.

In contrast with my inconsistency with writing publicly, I've become
scarily consistent with journaling. I write about something new at least
once a day. Writing as a tool for thinking has clearly resonated with me.
It's weird that there's a discrepancy between my journaling habit and my
public writing habit. The reasons behind this discrepancy will inform the
way I make the habit of writing publicly stick this time.

When I journal, I don't really care about presentation or cohesiveness.
There's no worrying about where a given day's writing connects to a
previous day's writing or how the words and structure I choose make me
look. I don't worry about having a pithy conclusion or having a tight
narrative arc that's widely digestable. I just think and thought comes out
freely.

That's what I'll aspire to here. I'm confident that if I just let myself
think, it won't take effort to build my repository of canonical ideas.

I'm too self-conscious to realize the ideal on day 1; I'm a little ashamed
to admit that I'm editing these words as I write. But I'll do my best to
get there by day 1000. I'm going to avoid caring about structure. I'll
probably come off rambly because that's how my mind works. I meander my
way to truth. I never claimed to be an essayist. I'm just a thinker.

I want my pattern of thinking to come out freely and the cost of that
might be a structure that isn't widely digestible. But for those who can
digest it, I suspect it'll really resonate.

I also have no idea what I'm going to write about. I've avoided saying
'I'm Lakshman and I blog about X.' I just like thinking and will be
thinking here. Of course, if I find myself really engaged with some common
threads, I may choose to package those in a way that improves
discoverability and reach. But I'm sure as hell not worrying about that
now.

The reason I want a canonical set of ideas online is to start
conversation. I probably should have mentioned that at the beginning. So
please get in touch if anything I write inspires thought. Especially if
you think I'm wrong. I'm frequently wrong.